Skyler Martens
Final Draft
Something I have always been interested in

Space is the great frontier for humanity and black holes are one of its greatest mysteries.  Even after a 
century of studying black holes, scientists still debate on some of their fundamental characteristics.  In this paper, one will 
learn the scientific history of the subject, what is currently known about black holes, and what is still unknown and merely theory.

Albert Einstein first theorized the existence of black holes in 1915 with his theory of general relativity.  A year later, Karl 
Schwarzchild used Einstein’s theory to define the gravitational radios of a black hole. After Schwarzchild formally defined black 
holes in 1916, it was not until the late 1950’s that scientists began to have the tools necessary to observe and study the celestial bodies.  
In 1958, David Finkelstein indentified the surface of a black hole as the event horizon.  He described the event horizon as, “a 
perfect unidirectional membrane: causal influences can cross it in only one direction.”  Twelve years later, in 1970, Stephen Hawking 
defined the modern theory of black holes.  Later that same year, the Cygnus X-1 telescope discovered what is thought to be the first 
observed black hole.  Finally, in 1994, the Hubble Space Telescope discovered the existence of supper massive black holes at the center 
of many galaxies.  While the history of black holes only covers the last 100 years, many breakthroughs and discoveries have been made 
to enhance scientist's knowledge on the subject. 

Though black holes are one of the most mysterious entities in the universe, scientists still have a good understanding of their 
basic properties.  The most fundamental characteristic of a black hole is that its gravitational field is so strong nothing,
not even electro magnetic radiation, can escape.  Two key regions of a black hole are its event horizon and center, known as a singularity.
The event horizon is the boundary at which nothing can escape, while a singularity is a point in space where the limit of the present gravitational
field approaches infinity.  While all black holes share these general characteristics, they all differ in size, rotation, and 
electric charge.  These three characteristics are determined by how the black hole forms and how much matter the black hole consumes.
Black holes generally form when a star collapses.  They then grow in size as they consume more and more mass.  Some black holes
consume so much mass they become classified as supper massive black holes.  Supper massive black holes are found at the center of 
galaxies and are millions of times more massive then our sun.  While all black holes posses an event horizon and a singularity at 
their center, each is unique in its size, rotation, and electric charge.

With their theorization just over a 100 years ago and first observation less then 50 years a go, there is still a lot that is unknown 
about black holes.  The greatest mystery surrounding black holes is whether they conservative information.  This is an important
topic in the world of physics as the conservation of information is one of the key pillars to the theory of quantum mechanics. Because 
nothing can escape a black hole, many believe information associated with matter consumed by a black hole is lost.  However, 
Steven Hawaking theorized that black holes do not break the theory of quantum mechanics and that information is in fact conserved.  
Hawaking believes black holes emit very small amounts of thermal radiation containing  information regarding matter the black 
hole has consumed.  Scientists are still working to this day to validate Hawaking's theory.  If Hawaking's theory turns out to be true, it would mean 
black holes can slowly die as they emit energy, which would be a ground breaking discovery.  With so much unknown about black holes, the
next 100 years will likely include discoveries that will revolutionize our understanding of the celestial bodies.

From the time they were theorized just over 100 years ago, black holes have taken center stage in the physics community.  
However, because they do not allow any light to escape, they have been relatively difficult to study and were first observed less 
then 50 years ago.  To this day, many questions still remain about the true nature of black holes and whether they conserve information.  
With the nearest black hole thousands of light years away, it is likely humans will never know their true nature.  Nevertheless, with 
their key role in modern physics and integral role in defining quantum mechanics, scientists are expected to continue researching the celestial bodies 
for centuries to come.   


